My app is a Shopping List App. Where the user can choose from a shopping category spinner, for example “Fruit”, “Pet Food”, etc and it will update the icon picture in each listing. The user has 3 options for text input: Item Name, Store, Other Comments. If other comments is left blank it will be filled in with the food category.
My brownie points: I added extra cute icons for each food category!

This project uses the Fragment + ViewModel. The main fragment contains a recycler view where the shoppings list items are displayed.
App consists of four fragments + the dialog fragment. The database files are under the folder of the same name which will collect and store the information of your list and will update the recycler view accordingly when you add or delete and item. The menu and navigation are implemented using an Android resource file. Navigation allows Main Fragment and Detail Fragment to have access to all the other fragments but Info and Settings fragments not to have access to each other.
When the app starts the main activity calls the fragment which inflates the main fragment, when the + button is tapped a bottom sheet dialog fragment pops up to prompt you to enter an item of your list. Then when the user presses the ADD button to successfully add the item to its list or the CANCEL button to back out.
To allow the user to remove a listing, you can swipe left and an Alert Dialog will pop up notifying you of the successful removal.

The settings are set up to do 3 different preferences, but I never got around to implementing them. I had planned to add sounds when you check something off your list as well as when you delete an item, and when you completed all items in the list I wanted to do some animation. So the settings were going to allow sound or not, show this animation or not and then a third one for big text in case the text was too small for the reader.
